---
title: "2018-11-01 日志"
---

# 计划

- [x] 了解OP-TEE安全驱动的开发流程

# 问题
- [ ] git 如何create patch and apply patch:
  [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5159185/create-a-git-patch-from-the-changes-in-the-current-working-directory](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/5159185/create-a-git-patch-from-the-changes-in-the-current-working-directory)
  
# 记录
1. `.S`:.S files are source code files written in assembly. 
2. `FIQ/IRQ`:In other words, an FIQ is just a higher priority interrupt request, that is prioritized by disabling IRQ and other FIQ handlers during request servicing. Therefore, no other interrupts can occur during the processing of the active FIQ interrupt.
3. `DT`:In computing, a device tree (also written devicetree) is a data structure describing the hardware components of a particular computer so that the operating system's kernel can use and manage those components, including the CPU or CPUs, the memory, the buses and the peripherals.
4. `eFUSE`:Speaking abstractly, computer logic is generally "etched" or "hard-coded" onto a chip and cannot be changed after the chip has finished being manufactured.
5. Answering the differeneces between Boot and Recovery Images. The `Boot Image` is where all the critical files (kernel, ramdisk) that are necessary to load the device are stored. Whenever you reboot your device, the bootloaders checks the boot.img for instructions and then loads the entire system accordingly.`Recovery Image` is where the recovery settings are stored. It is used to perform recovery actions like Wiping Cache, Wiping Dalvik Cache, Wiping All (Factory Reset). Apart from this, it is also responsible for upgrading your Android Version (or security updates).How did you reboot to recovery?? If you ADB installed try this command adb reboot recovery
6. https为什么双向认证用得少，在应用层解决了（但是证书还能够限制来源，没安装的访问不了，和ssh的公/私密钥很像（私钥能代表一个人的身份）：
   [https://zhidao.baidu.com/question/458464295876388645.html](https://zhidao.baidu.com/question/458464295876388645.html)

7. 今天下午翟栋的分享：
   ```
    AES192 192指的是密钥bit长度

    分组密码运行模式（解密和解密就是输入不一样，输入与输出颠倒）：
      - ECB
      - CBC（IV一般不为0，最常用）
      - CFB（转换为流模式）
      - OFB（转换为流模式）
      - CTR（不懂）

      完整性检
      测：
      MD5、SHA-256（HASH值的长度）
      （改动一点，差距很大）

      鉴别：
      MAC
      对称密钥有了（协商过了）
      摘要只能保证完整，不能保证鉴别是谁发的

      数字签名：
      用私钥加密HASH，就是数字签名，证明你的身份，我理解的是没有

      口令认证：
      密码HASH，传HASH值到后台服务器

      公钥加密：
      数字证书
      PKI
      为什么存在证书链，安全性应该没什么提高
   ```
